Add Build Integration guide (#97)
meilisearch/integration-guides: guides/build_integration.md

# Build an Integration for MeiliSearch

Here are some guidelines that you should follow, as we want to guarantee consistency and coherence across the different integrations, as well as technical quality for the different MeiliSearch users.

## 1. Main Principle: User Experience First

The provided package should take into account the user experience: it should be easy to use by the user and as intuitive as possible. The customization is important, but the basic usage of the plugin should be accessible.

Feel free to [contact us](https://docs.meilisearch.com/learn/what_is_meilisearch/contact.html#contact-us) if you hesitate about an implementation choice.

## 2. README

Here are the minimum structure that the README must contain:

- A well-explained `Getting Started` section: the user should be able to copy/paste the code and command examples and everything should work as expected.
- Basic code examples for the most common actions.

> We recommend checking out the READMEs of our other integration repositories.

Reviewer: Would be nice to link somewhere here, so they don't have to go digging through our repos.

Author: ```suggestion
We recommend checking out the READMEs of our other integration repositories, like [this one](https://github.com/meilisearch/meilisearch-ruby/blob/main/README.md).
```

## 3. CONTRIBUTING.md

> The repository should contain a CONTRIBUTING.md. The [template is here](/templates/CONTRIBUTING.md) and needs to be filled according to the repository context.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All integration repositories must contain a file titled `CONTRIBUTING.md`. The template is [here](/templates/CONTRIBUTING.md) and should be filled according to the details of your repository..
```

## 4. Minimal Provided Methods

> The minimal routes/behaviors an integration should handle are:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
At minimum, your integration must support:
```

> - the [documents manipulation](https://docs.meilisearch.com/reference/api/documents.html).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- all functionality related to [document manipulation](https://docs.meilisearch.com/reference/api/documents.html).
```

> - the [search](https://docs.meilisearch.com/reference/api/search.html) with and without [search parameters](https://docs.meilisearch.com/reference/features/search_parameters.html).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- all functionality related to [search](https://docs.meilisearch.com/reference/api/search.html), including [search parameters](https://docs.meilisearch.com/reference/features/search_parameters.html).
```

- a basic error handler that wraps and throws the [MeiliSearch errors](https://docs.meilisearch.com/reference/api/#errors-status-code).

> ⚠️ All the other routes that are not handled by the integration yet should be clearly reported as an issue in the repository.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
⚠️ All routes that are not yet implemented in the integration should be clearly reported as an issue in the repository.
```

## 5. Tests

> Each public method (so the exposed part of the tool) should be tested against the MeiliSearch instance. This ensures the provided methods work at any time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each public method (i.e. the exposed part of the integration) should be tested against the MeiliSearch instance. This ensures the provided methods work at any time.
```

> Mocking tests are accepted but should not be prioritized since it would involve updating regularly the mocked server: MeiliSearch is indeed not stable yet.

Author: ```suggestion
Mocking tests are accepted but should not be prioritized since it would involve updating regularly the mocked server: until v1 of MeiliSearch, most new versions introduce breaking changes.
.
```

> Mocking tests are accepted but should not be prioritized since it would involve updating regularly the mocked server: until v1 of MeiliSearch, most new versions introduce breaking changes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Mock testing is accepted but should not be prioritized, since it would require [regularly updating](https://docs.meilisearch.com/learn/getting_started/installation.html#updating-meilisearch) the mocked server to account for breaking changes.
```

Author: Hum, for me this does not make sense to link this docs page. Updating the mocked server is not the same as updating MeiliSearch. But I like your sentence without the linking 🙂

Author: ```
Mock testing is accepted but should not be prioritized, since it would require regularly updating the mocked server to account for breaking changes.
```

> If you want to start writing tests you can checkout the tests in our several repositories like [this one](https://github.com/meilisearch/meilisearch-php/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you want to start writing your own tests and are looking for a reference, you can find tests in most of our repositories, such as [this one](https://github.com/meilisearch/meilisearch-php/).
```

## 6. Linter and Style

> A linter should be added to ease contributions and maintainers work.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Your integration should contain a linter to ease contributions and maintenance.
```

We also recommend to add a [`.editorconfig` file](https://editorconfig.org/) so that everyone can follow minimal styling rules.

> ## 7. CIs

Author: ```suggestion
## 7. Continuous Integration (CI)
```

> A CI must run before merging into the main branch and should check:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All integration repositories should run a CI workflow before merging into the main branch. It should ensure that:
```

> - the tests run against the latest version of MeiliSearch. No need to support older version of MeiliSearch since MeiliSearch is not stable.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- the tests are successful with the latest version of MeiliSearch. No need to support older versions of MeiliSearch since MeiliSearch is not stable at this time.
```

> - the linter does not throw any error.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- the linter does not throw any errors.
```

This guarantees the quality of the package and provides a welcoming environment for contributions.

> ## 8. About Publishing

Author: ```suggestion
## 8. Publishing
```

> The release versioning should follow the [Semantic Versioning Convention](https://docs.meilisearch.com/reference/api/#errors-status-code) and should have clear changelogs (in a CHANGELOG.md or in the GitHub release description [as we do in our repositories](https://github.com/meilisearch/meilisearch-ruby/releases)).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The release versioning should follow the [Semantic Versioning Convention](https://docs.meilisearch.com/reference/api/#errors-status-code) and should have clear changelogs (in a `CHANGELOG.md` file or in the GitHub release description [as we do in our repositories](https://github.com/meilisearch/meilisearch-ruby/releases)).
```

# Build an Integration for MeiliSearch

Here are some guidelines that you should follow, as we want to guarantee consistency and coherence across the different integrations, as well as technical quality for the different MeiliSearch users.

## 1. Main Principle: User Experience First

The provided package should take into account the user experience: it should be easy to use by the user and as intuitive as possible. The customization is important, but the basic usage of the plugin should be accessible.

Feel free to [contact us](https://docs.meilisearch.com/learn/what_is_meilisearch/contact.html#contact-us) if you hesitate about an implementation choice.

## 2. README

Here are the minimum structure that the README must contain:

- A well-explained `Getting Started` section: the user should be able to copy/paste the code and command examples and everything should work as expected.
- Basic code examples for the most common actions.

We recommend checking out the READMEs of our other integration repositories.

> ## 3. CONTRIBUTING.md

Reviewer 2: FYI

For now it focus on code contribution, we'll suggest updates soon for the template and all repos.

The repository should contain a CONTRIBUTING.md. The [template is here](/templates/CONTRIBUTING.md) and needs to be filled according to the repository context.

## 4. Minimal Provided Methods

> The minimal routes/behavior an integration should handle are:

Author: ```suggestion
The minimal routes/behaviors an integration should handle are:
```

- the [documents manipulation](https://docs.meilisearch.com/reference/api/documents.html).

> - the [search](https://docs.meilisearch.com/reference/api/search.html) with and without [search paramters](https://docs.meilisearch.com/reference/features/search_parameters.html).

Reviewer 2: typo

should be parameters

> - the [search](https://docs.meilisearch.com/reference/api/search.html) with and without [search paramters](https://docs.meilisearch.com/reference/features/search_parameters.html).

Author: ```suggestion
- the [search](https://docs.meilisearch.com/reference/api/search.html) with and without [search parameters](https://docs.meilisearch.com/reference/features/search_parameters.html).
```

- a basic error handler that wraps and throws the [MeiliSearch errors](https://docs.meilisearch.com/reference/api/#errors-status-code).

> ⚠️ All the other routes that are not handled by the package yet should be clearly put as an issue in the repository.

Author: ```suggestion
⚠️ All the other routes that are not handled by the integration yet should be clearly reported as an issue in the repository.
```

## 5. Tests

> Each method provided should be tested against the MeiliSearch instance.

Author: ```suggestion
Each public method (so the exposed part of the tool) should be tested against the MeiliSearch instance.
```

> Each public method (so the exposed part of the tool) should be tested against the MeiliSearch instance.

Author: ```suggestion
Each public method (so the exposed part of the tool) should be tested against the MeiliSearch instance. This ensures the provided methods work at any time.
```

> Mocking tests are accepted but should not be prioritized.

Author: ```suggestion
Mocking tests are accepted but should not be prioritized since it would involve updating regularly the mocked server: MeiliSearch is indeed not stable yet.
```

> Mocking tests are accepted but should not be prioritized since it would involve updating regularly the mocked server: MeiliSearch is indeed not stable yet.

Reviewer 2: There is probably a better way to say the same thing as `MeiliSearch is indeed not stable yet`. Maybe `until v1, most new versions introduce break changes`

If you want to start writing tests you can checkout the tests in our several repositories like [this one](https://github.com/meilisearch/meilisearch-php/).

## 6. Linter and Style

A linter should be added to ease contributions and maintainers work.

> We also recommend to add a [`.editorconfig` file](https://editorconfig.org/) so that everyone can follow minimal styling rules.

Reviewer 2: I think we should provide a default config file for things common with most programming languages. Would help us for our own projects also, WDYT?

Author: It really depends on the language.
Hopefully, it's really easy to find an editorconfig template for your language. Even the example of editorconfig in their website is quite good to understand and to have a base -> https://editorconfig.org

> ## 7. CIs

Reviewer 2: Should write it in full for people not knowing what it is.

In the below sentence, you can write `Continuous Integration (CI)` so you can mention CI only in the next sentences if needed.

It's a best practice for accronyms

A CI must run before merging into the main branch and should check:

- the tests run against the latest version of MeiliSearch. No need to support older version of MeiliSearch since MeiliSearch is not stable.
- the linter does not throw any error.

> This guarantees the quality of the package and helps welcoming contributions.

Author: ```suggestion
This guarantees the quality of the package and provides a welcoming environment for contributions.
```

> ## 8. About Publishing

Reviewer 2: You can remove `About` to be consistent with the rest of the titles.

Feel free to ask Tommy to review the README once you did you last changes: he'll be happy to help.

> The release versioning should follow the (Semantic Versioning Convention)[https://docs.meilisearch.com/reference/api/#errors-status-code] and should have clear changelogs (in a CHANGELOG.md or in the GitHub release description [as we do in our repositories](https://github.com/meilisearch/meilisearch-ruby/releases)).

Author: ```suggestion
The release versioning should follow the [Semantic Versioning Convention](https://docs.meilisearch.com/reference/api/#errors-status-code) and should have clear changelogs (in a CHANGELOG.md or in the GitHub release description [as we do in our repositories](https://github.com/meilisearch/meilisearch-ruby/releases)).
```

> The publishement of each new release should be as smooth as possible to do quick updates after bug fixes or feature introductions.

Reviewer 2: publishement isn't a work :)
publishing

Also, I think you mean that people should publish more often than not? It's not clear when you read the sentence.

Author: ```suggestion
```

Author: You're right I removed it. It did not bring any interesting information.
